js/README.md, before:

# ONNX Runtime JavaScript API

This directory contains multiple NPM projects:

- [onnxruntime-common](#onnxruntime-common)
- [onnxruntime-node](#onnxruntime-node)
- [onnxruntime-web](#onnxruntime-web)
- [onnxruntime-react-native](#onnxruntime-react-native)

## Development

This folder contains a `.vscode` folder for Visual Studio Code workspace configs. Using VSCode to open this folder
will allow code-formatting and linting features on typescript and C/C++ source code inside this folder. Following files
are used for code-formatting and linting features for developers:

- .vscode/\*\*
- package.json
- packages-lock.json
- .eslintrc.js
- .clang-format

Please follow the steps described below to setup development environment.

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (14.0+): https://nodejs.org/ - (Optional) Use nvm ([Windows](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows) / [Mac/Linux](https://github.com/creationix/nvm)) to install Node.js

- Python (2.7 or 3.6+): https://www.python.org/downloads/

  - python should be added to the PATH environment variable

- Visual Studio Code: https://code.visualstudio.com/

  - **required** extension: [ESLint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint)
  - **required** extension: [Clang-Format](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=xaver.clang-format)
  - **required** extension: [Debugger for Chrome](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=msjsdiag.debugger-for-chrome)

- Chrome or Edge Browser

### Setup TypeScript development environment

In `<ORT_ROOT>/js`, run:

```
npm ci
```

This will install Clang-format and ESLint for code-formatting and linting features. This is a one-time setup unless a `git clean` is performed or folder `<ORT_ROOT>/js/node_modules` is removed manually.

### Using VSCode:

Use VSCode to open folder `<ORT_ROOT>/js`.

Make sure to open the correct folder to allow VSCode to load workspace configuration. Otherwise typescript and code formatter may not work as expected.

To populate typescript type declarations, in each project folder, run `npm ci`.

### Run code formatter and linter manually

In `<ORT_ROOT>/js`, use `npm run lint` to run ESLint , and use `npm run format` to run clang-format.

## onnxruntime-common

> language: typescript

> dependency:

> folder: <ORT_ROOT>/js/common

This project is designed to include all "common" code, which are pure javascript that can run in both Node.js and browsers.

### Requirements

Node.js v12+ (recommended v14+)

### Build

Use following command in folder `<ORT_ROOT>/js/common` to install NPM packages, build typescript files and generate bundles:

```
npm ci
```

### Distribution

It should be able to consumed by both from projects that uses NPM packages (through a Node.js folder structure of `node_modules` folder that generated by `npm install onnxruntime-common`) and from a CDN service that serves a `.min.js` bundle file.

### Features

Following features are included in `onnxruntime-common`:

- `InferenceSession` interfaces
- `Tensor`/`OnnxValue` interfaces, implementation and a set of utility functions
- `Backend` interfaces and a set of functions for backend registration

## onnxruntime-node

> language: typescript/C++

> dependency: onnxruntime-common, ONNXRuntime.dll

> folder: <ORT_ROOT>/js/node

This project is designed to be used as a NPM package to enable Node.js users to consume ONNX Runtime via Node.js binding, in Node.js or any Node.js compatible environment.

### Requirements

Node.js v12+ (recommended v14+)

### Build

#### Build ONNX Runtime and Node.js binding

Follow [instructions](https://www.onnxruntime.ai/docs/how-to/build.html#apis-and-language-bindings) for building ONNX Runtime Node.js binding

#### Build Node.js binding only

Use following command in folder `<ORT_ROOT>/js/node` to install NPM packages and build typescript files:

```
npm ci
```

This will download the latest pre-built ONNX Runtime binaries for the current platform.

### Distribution

It should be able to consumed by from projects that uses NPM packages (through a Node.js folder structure of `node_modules` folder that generated by `npm install onnxruntime-node`).

## onnxruntime-web

> language: typescript

> dependency: onnxruntime-common, ONNXRuntime WebAssembly

> folder: <ORT_ROOT>/js/web

This project is a library for running ONNX models on browsers. It is the successor of [ONNX.js](https://github.com/Microsoft/onnxjs).

### Build

1. Install NPM packages

   1. in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/`, run `npm ci`.
   2. in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/common/`, run `npm ci`.
   3. in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web/`, run `npm ci`.

2. Prepare ONNX Runtime WebAssembly artifacts.

   You can either use the prebuilt artifacts or build it by yourself.

   - Setup by script.

     In `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web/`, run `npm run pull:wasm` to pull WebAssembly artifacts for latest master branch from CI pipeline.

   - Download artifacts from pipeline manually.

     you can download prebuilt WebAssembly artifacts from [Windows WebAssembly CI Pipeline](https://dev.azure.com/onnxruntime/onnxruntime/_build?definitionId=161&_a=summary). Select a build, download artifacts "Release_ort-wasm" and "Release_ort-wasm-threaded" and unzip. See instructions below to put files into destination folders.

   - Build WebAssembly artifacts.

     1. Build ONNX Runtime WebAssembly

        ~~Follow [instructions](https://www.onnxruntime.ai/docs/how-to/build.html#apis-and-language-bindings) for building ONNX Runtime WebAssembly. (TODO: document is not ready. we are working on it. Please see steps described as below.)~~

        in `<ORT_ROOT>/`, run one of the following commands to build WebAssembly:

        ```sh
        # In windows, use 'build' to replace './build.sh'

        # The following command build debug.
        ./build.sh --build_wasm

        # The following command build debug with debug info.
        ./build.sh --build_wasm --skip_tests --enable_wasm_debug_info

        # The following command build release.
        ./build.sh --config Release --build_wasm --skip_tests --disable_wasm_exception_catching --disable_rtti
        ```

        To build with multi-thread support, append flag `--enable_wasm_threads` to the command. Make sure to build both single-thread and multi-thread before next step.

     2. Copy following files from build output folder to `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web/dist/`:

        - ort-wasm.wasm
        - ort-wasm-threaded.wasm (build with flag '--enable_wasm_threads')

     3. Copy following files from build output folder to `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web/lib/wasm/binding/`:

        - ort-wasm.js
        - ort-wasm-threaded.js (build with flag '--enable_wasm_threads')
        - ort-wasm-threaded.worker.js (build with flag '--enable_wasm_threads')

3. Use following command in folder `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web` to build:
   ```
   npm run build
   ```

### Test

We use command `npm test` (test runner) and `npm run test:e2e` (E2E test) for tests in ONNXRuntime Web.

#### test runner

In folder `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web`,

- Run `npm test -- --help` for a full CLI instruction.
- Run `npm test -- <your-args> --debug` to run one or more test cases.

There are multiple levels of tests for ONNXRuntime Web:

- unit test: tests for individual components written in TypeScript. Launch unit test by:
  ```
  npm test -- unittest
  ```
- model test: run a single model. The model folder should contains one .onnx model file and one or more folders for test cases, each folder contains several input*\*.pb and output*\*.pb as test data. Launch model test by:
  ```
  npm test -- model <model_folder>
  ```
- op test: test a single operator. An op test is described in a `.jsonc` file which specify the operator type, its attributes and one or more test case(s), each includes a list of expected input tensor(s) and output tensor(s). The `.jsonc` file is located at `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web/test/data/ops`. Launch op test by:

  ```
  npm test -- op <file_name>
  ```

- suite test: suite test includes unit test, a list of model tests and op tests. Launch suite test by:
  ```
  npm test
  ```

#### E2E test

E2E test is for testing end-to-end package consuming. In this test, NPM packages for `onnxruntime-common` and `onnxruntime-web` are generated and a clean folder is used for installing packages. Then a simple mocha test is performed to make sure package can be consumed correctly.

To launch E2E test:

```
npm run test:e2e
```

### Debugging

#### Debugging TypeScript on Desktop/Chrome

To debug the code from test-runner on Chrome:

- Launch `npm test -- <your_args> --debug`. It opens an instance of Chrome browser.
- In the open Chrome browser, click the `DEBUG` button on the top-right of the page.
- In VSCode, click [side bar]->Run and Debug->select [Attach to Chrome]->click [Start Debugging] to attach.
- put breakpoints in source code, and Refresh the page to reload.

#### Debugging TypeScript on iOS/Safari

To debug on an Apple iOS device, please refer to the following steps:

- install [
  RemoteDebug iOS WebKit Adapter](https://github.com/RemoteDebug/remotedebug-ios-webkit-adapter) by following its instructions.
- launch the adapter in commandline: `remotedebug_ios_webkit_adapter --port=9000`.
- in VSCode, select debug configuration `Remote Browser via Webkit Adaptor`.
- follow the steps above to debug.

#### Debugging TypeScript on Android/Chrome

To debug on an Android device, please refer to the following steps:

- Install [Android SDK Platform Tools](https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/platform-tools) and make sure `adb` is ready to use.
- Follow instructions in [Remote Debugging on Android](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/remote-debugging-legacy) to launch `adb`. Make sure to use port 9000 so that the existing debug configuration works.
- in VSCode, select debug configuration `Remote Browser via Webkit Adaptor`.
- follow the steps above to debug.

#### Debugging C/C++ for ONNX Runtime WebAssembly

To debug C/C++ code for ONNX Runtime WebAssembly, you need to build ONNX Runtime with debug info (see [Build](#Build-2)).

Currently debugging C/C++ code in WebAssembly is not supported in VSCode yet. Please follow [this instruction](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/wasm-debugging-2020/) to debug in browser devtool using extension [C/C++ DevTools Support (DWARF)](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/cc%20%20-devtools-support-dwa/pdcpmagijalfljmkmjngeonclgbbannb).

### Generating Document

Use command `npm run build:doc` to generate the latest documents.

### Distribution

It should be able to consumed by both from projects that uses NPM packages (through a Node.js folder structure of `node_modules` folder that generated by `npm install onnxruntime-web`) and from a CDN service that serves a `ort.min.js` file and one or multiple `.wasm` file(s).

## onnxruntime-react-native

> language: typescript, java, objective-c

> dependency: onnxruntime-common

> folder: <ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native

This project provides an ONNX Runtime React Native JavaScript library to run ONNX models on React Native Android and iOS app.

### Requirements

- Yarn
- Android SDK and NDK, which can be installed via Android Studio or sdkmanager command line tool
- A Mac computer with the latest macOS
- [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/)
- [CMake](https://cmake.org/download/)
- [Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/mac-osx/)

### Build

1. Install NPM packages for ONNX Runtime common JavaScript library and required React Native JavaScript libraries

   1. in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/`, run `npm ci`.
   2. in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/common/`, run `npm ci`.
   3. in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/`, run `yarn`.

2. Build Android ONNX Runtime package

   1. Set up an Android build environment referring to [instruction](https://www.onnxruntime.ai/docs/how-to/build.html#android)

   2. In `<ORT_ROOT>`, run this python script to build ONNX Runtime Android archive file. In windows, this requires admin account to build. If an app uses a fixed set of models, refer to [instruction](https://www.onnxruntime.ai/docs/how-to/build.html#android) and build a mobile version package

   ```python
   python tools/ci_build/github/android/build_aar_package.py js/react_native/scripts/aar_build_settings.json --config MinSizeRel --android_sdk_path <ANDROID_SDK_PATH> --android_ndk_path <ANDROID_NDK_PATH> --build_dir <BUILD_DIRECTORY>
   ```

   3. This generates `onnxruntime-mobile-<version>.aar` in `<BUILD_DIRECTORY>/aar_out/MinSizeRel/com/microsoft/onnxruntime/onnxruntime-mobile/<version>`. Copy `aar` file into `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/android/libs` and rename it as `onnxruntime.aar`

   4. To verify, open Android Emulator and run this command from `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/android`

   ```sh
   adb shell am instrument -w ai.onnxruntime.react_native.test/androidx.test.runner.AndroidJUnitRunner
   ```

3. Build iOS ONNX Runtime package

   1. Set up iOS build environment referring to [instruction](https://www.onnxruntime.ai/docs/how-to/build.html#ios).

   2. Build ONNX Runtime library for iOS from `<ORT_ROOT>` using this command,

   ```sh
   ./build.sh --config MinSizeRel --use_xcode --ios --ios_sysroot iphoneos --osx_arch arm64 --apple_deploy_target 11
   ```

   Copy `<ORT_ROOT>/build/iOS/MinSizeRel/MinSizeRel-iphoneos/libonnxruntime.<version>.dylib` file into `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/ios/Libraries/onnxruntime/lib/iphoneos`

   3. Clean up the previous build and build ONNX Runtime library for iOS Simulator from `<ORT_ROOT>`

   ```sh
   ./build.sh --config MinSizeRel --use_xcode --ios --ios_sysroot iphonesimulator --osx_arch x86_64 --apple_deploy_target 11
   ```

   Copy `<ORT_ROOT>/build/iOS/MinSizeRel/MinSizeRel-iphonesimulator/libonnxruntime.<version>.dylib` file into `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/ios/Libraries/onnxruntime/lib/iphonesimulator`

   4. Edit `onnxruntime-react-native.iphoneos.podspec` and `onnxruntime-react-native.iphonesimulator.podsepc` in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native` to change a version of ONNX Runtime library.

   5. Copy ONNX Runtime header files

   ```sh
   cp <ORT_ROOT>/include/onnxruntime/core/session/*.h <ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/ios/Libraries/onnxruntime/include
   ```

   6. To verify, open iOS Simulator and run this command from `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/ios`. Change a destination to specify a running iOS Simulator.
      ```sh
      pod install
      export ONNXRUNTIME_VERSION=<version>; xcodebuild test -workspace OnnxruntimeModule.xcworkspace -scheme OnnxruntimeModuleTest -destination 'platform=iOS Simulator,name=iPhone 11,OS=14.5'
      ```

4. Update a version in `package.json` to align with ONNX Runtime version.

5. Test an example for Android and iOS. In Windows, open Android Emulator first. From `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native`
   ```sh
   yarn bootstrap
   yarn example ios
   yarn example android
   ```

### NPM Packaging

1. Update a version using `npm verison <version>` from `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native` folder. If it's for a dev, use `npm version <version>-dev.<subversion>`

2. Run `yarn prepack` to change `onnxruntime-common` to point to a published npm package

3. Run `npm pack` and verify NPM package contents

4. Run `npm publish <tgz> --dry-run` to see how it's going to be published

5. Run `npm publish <tgz>` to publish to npmjs. If it's for a dev, add flag `--tag dev`.

### Distribution

It should be able to consumed by React Native projects that uses Yarn packages through `yarn add onnxruntime-react-native`.

Commit message:

[js/web] Add wasm SIMD backend to onnxruntime-web (#7896)
* [js/web] Add wasm SIMD backend to onnxruntime-web

* Import SIMD wasm artifacts enabled by PR #7839

* Detect SIMD capability of web engine

* Use SIMD wasm backend in both single-thread and multi-thread cases

* update optimized SIMD loading from ort web

* code lint and format

* fix WasmFileName in CI

* replace deprecated wasm SIMD functions

* fix unittest for simd

* optimize CI pipeline to merge build matrix

* make clean build for each config

* fix simd wasm to enable it.

* update script/pull-prebuilt-wasm-artifacts.ts

Co-authored-by: Yulong Wang <yulongw@microsoft.com>
Co-authored-by: Lei Zhang <zhang.huanning@hotmail.com>

js/README.md, after:

# ONNX Runtime JavaScript API

This directory contains multiple NPM projects:

- [onnxruntime-common](#onnxruntime-common)
- [onnxruntime-node](#onnxruntime-node)
- [onnxruntime-web](#onnxruntime-web)
- [onnxruntime-react-native](#onnxruntime-react-native)

## Development

This folder contains a `.vscode` folder for Visual Studio Code workspace configs. Using VSCode to open this folder
will allow code-formatting and linting features on typescript and C/C++ source code inside this folder. Following files
are used for code-formatting and linting features for developers:

- .vscode/\*\*
- package.json
- packages-lock.json
- .eslintrc.js
- .clang-format

Please follow the steps described below to setup development environment.

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (14.0+): https://nodejs.org/ - (Optional) Use nvm ([Windows](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows) / [Mac/Linux](https://github.com/creationix/nvm)) to install Node.js

- Python (2.7 or 3.6+): https://www.python.org/downloads/

  - python should be added to the PATH environment variable

- Visual Studio Code: https://code.visualstudio.com/

  - **required** extension: [ESLint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint)
  - **required** extension: [Clang-Format](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=xaver.clang-format)
  - **required** extension: [Debugger for Chrome](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=msjsdiag.debugger-for-chrome)

- Chrome or Edge Browser

### Setup TypeScript development environment

In `<ORT_ROOT>/js`, run:

```
npm ci
```

This will install Clang-format and ESLint for code-formatting and linting features. This is a one-time setup unless a `git clean` is performed or folder `<ORT_ROOT>/js/node_modules` is removed manually.

### Using VSCode:

Use VSCode to open folder `<ORT_ROOT>/js`.

Make sure to open the correct folder to allow VSCode to load workspace configuration. Otherwise typescript and code formatter may not work as expected.

To populate typescript type declarations, in each project folder, run `npm ci`.

### Run code formatter and linter manually

In `<ORT_ROOT>/js`, use `npm run lint` to run ESLint , and use `npm run format` to run clang-format.

## onnxruntime-common

> language: typescript

> dependency:

> folder: <ORT_ROOT>/js/common

This project is designed to include all "common" code, which are pure javascript that can run in both Node.js and browsers.

### Requirements

Node.js v12+ (recommended v14+)

### Build

Use following command in folder `<ORT_ROOT>/js/common` to install NPM packages, build typescript files and generate bundles:

```
npm ci
```

### Distribution

It should be able to consumed by both from projects that uses NPM packages (through a Node.js folder structure of `node_modules` folder that generated by `npm install onnxruntime-common`) and from a CDN service that serves a `.min.js` bundle file.

### Features

Following features are included in `onnxruntime-common`:

- `InferenceSession` interfaces
- `Tensor`/`OnnxValue` interfaces, implementation and a set of utility functions
- `Backend` interfaces and a set of functions for backend registration

## onnxruntime-node

> language: typescript/C++

> dependency: onnxruntime-common, ONNXRuntime.dll

> folder: <ORT_ROOT>/js/node

This project is designed to be used as a NPM package to enable Node.js users to consume ONNX Runtime via Node.js binding, in Node.js or any Node.js compatible environment.

### Requirements

Node.js v12+ (recommended v14+)

### Build

#### Build ONNX Runtime and Node.js binding

Follow [instructions](https://www.onnxruntime.ai/docs/how-to/build.html#apis-and-language-bindings) for building ONNX Runtime Node.js binding

#### Build Node.js binding only

Use following command in folder `<ORT_ROOT>/js/node` to install NPM packages and build typescript files:

```
npm ci
```

This will download the latest pre-built ONNX Runtime binaries for the current platform.

### Distribution

It should be able to consumed by from projects that uses NPM packages (through a Node.js folder structure of `node_modules` folder that generated by `npm install onnxruntime-node`).

## onnxruntime-web

> language: typescript

> dependency: onnxruntime-common, ONNXRuntime WebAssembly

> folder: <ORT_ROOT>/js/web

This project is a library for running ONNX models on browsers. It is the successor of [ONNX.js](https://github.com/Microsoft/onnxjs).

### Build

1. Install NPM packages

   1. in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/`, run `npm ci`.
   2. in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/common/`, run `npm ci`.
   3. in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web/`, run `npm ci`.

2. Prepare ONNX Runtime WebAssembly artifacts.

   You can either use the prebuilt artifacts or build it by yourself.

   - Setup by script.

     In `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web/`, run `npm run pull:wasm` to pull WebAssembly artifacts for latest master branch from CI pipeline.

   - Download artifacts from pipeline manually.

     you can download prebuilt WebAssembly artifacts from [Windows WebAssembly CI Pipeline](https://dev.azure.com/onnxruntime/onnxruntime/_build?definitionId=161&_a=summary). Select a build, download artifacts "Release_ort-wasm" and "Release_ort-wasm-threaded" and unzip. See instructions below to put files into destination folders.

   - Build WebAssembly artifacts.

     1. Build ONNX Runtime WebAssembly

        ~~Follow [instructions](https://www.onnxruntime.ai/docs/how-to/build.html#apis-and-language-bindings) for building ONNX Runtime WebAssembly. (TODO: document is not ready. we are working on it. Please see steps described as below.)~~

        in `<ORT_ROOT>/`, run one of the following commands to build WebAssembly:

        ```sh
        # In windows, use 'build' to replace './build.sh'

        # The following command build debug.
        ./build.sh --build_wasm

        # The following command build debug with debug info.
        ./build.sh --build_wasm --skip_tests --enable_wasm_debug_info

        # The following command build release.
        ./build.sh --config Release --build_wasm --skip_tests --disable_wasm_exception_catching --disable_rtti
        ```

        To build with multi-thread support, append flag `--enable_wasm_threads` to the command. To build with SIMD support, append flag `--enable_wasm_simd` to the command. Make sure to build both single-thread and multi-thread with and without SIMD before next step.

     2. Copy following files from build output folder to `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web/dist/`:

        - ort-wasm.wasm
        - ort-wasm-threaded.wasm (build with flag '--enable_wasm_threads')
        - ort-wasm-simd.wasm (build with flag '--enable_wasm_simd')
        - ort-wasm-simd-threaded.wasm (build with flags '--enable_wasm_threads --enable_wasm_simd')

     3. Copy following files from build output folder to `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web/lib/wasm/binding/`:

        - ort-wasm.js
        - ort-wasm-threaded.js (build with flag '--enable_wasm_threads')
        - ort-wasm-threaded.worker.js (build with flag '--enable_wasm_threads')

3. Use following command in folder `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web` to build:
   ```
   npm run build
   ```

### Test

We use command `npm test` (test runner) and `npm run test:e2e` (E2E test) for tests in ONNXRuntime Web.

#### test runner

In folder `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web`,

- Run `npm test -- --help` for a full CLI instruction.
- Run `npm test -- <your-args> --debug` to run one or more test cases.

There are multiple levels of tests for ONNXRuntime Web:

- unit test: tests for individual components written in TypeScript. Launch unit test by:
  ```
  npm test -- unittest
  ```
- model test: run a single model. The model folder should contains one .onnx model file and one or more folders for test cases, each folder contains several input*\*.pb and output*\*.pb as test data. Launch model test by:
  ```
  npm test -- model <model_folder>
  ```
- op test: test a single operator. An op test is described in a `.jsonc` file which specify the operator type, its attributes and one or more test case(s), each includes a list of expected input tensor(s) and output tensor(s). The `.jsonc` file is located at `<ORT_ROOT>/js/web/test/data/ops`. Launch op test by:

  ```
  npm test -- op <file_name>
  ```

- suite test: suite test includes unit test, a list of model tests and op tests. Launch suite test by:
  ```
  npm test
  ```

#### E2E test

E2E test is for testing end-to-end package consuming. In this test, NPM packages for `onnxruntime-common` and `onnxruntime-web` are generated and a clean folder is used for installing packages. Then a simple mocha test is performed to make sure package can be consumed correctly.

To launch E2E test:

```
npm run test:e2e
```

### Debugging

#### Debugging TypeScript on Desktop/Chrome

To debug the code from test-runner on Chrome:

- Launch `npm test -- <your_args> --debug`. It opens an instance of Chrome browser.
- In the open Chrome browser, click the `DEBUG` button on the top-right of the page.
- In VSCode, click [side bar]->Run and Debug->select [Attach to Chrome]->click [Start Debugging] to attach.
- put breakpoints in source code, and Refresh the page to reload.

#### Debugging TypeScript on iOS/Safari

To debug on an Apple iOS device, please refer to the following steps:

- install [
  RemoteDebug iOS WebKit Adapter](https://github.com/RemoteDebug/remotedebug-ios-webkit-adapter) by following its instructions.
- launch the adapter in commandline: `remotedebug_ios_webkit_adapter --port=9000`.
- in VSCode, select debug configuration `Remote Browser via Webkit Adaptor`.
- follow the steps above to debug.

#### Debugging TypeScript on Android/Chrome

To debug on an Android device, please refer to the following steps:

- Install [Android SDK Platform Tools](https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/platform-tools) and make sure `adb` is ready to use.
- Follow instructions in [Remote Debugging on Android](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/remote-debugging-legacy) to launch `adb`. Make sure to use port 9000 so that the existing debug configuration works.
- in VSCode, select debug configuration `Remote Browser via Webkit Adaptor`.
- follow the steps above to debug.

#### Debugging C/C++ for ONNX Runtime WebAssembly

To debug C/C++ code for ONNX Runtime WebAssembly, you need to build ONNX Runtime with debug info (see [Build](#Build-2)).

Currently debugging C/C++ code in WebAssembly is not supported in VSCode yet. Please follow [this instruction](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/wasm-debugging-2020/) to debug in browser devtool using extension [C/C++ DevTools Support (DWARF)](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/cc%20%20-devtools-support-dwa/pdcpmagijalfljmkmjngeonclgbbannb).

### Generating Document

Use command `npm run build:doc` to generate the latest documents.

### Distribution

It should be able to consumed by both from projects that uses NPM packages (through a Node.js folder structure of `node_modules` folder that generated by `npm install onnxruntime-web`) and from a CDN service that serves a `ort.min.js` file and one or multiple `.wasm` file(s).

## onnxruntime-react-native

> language: typescript, java, objective-c

> dependency: onnxruntime-common

> folder: <ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native

This project provides an ONNX Runtime React Native JavaScript library to run ONNX models on React Native Android and iOS app.

### Requirements

- Yarn
- Android SDK and NDK, which can be installed via Android Studio or sdkmanager command line tool
- A Mac computer with the latest macOS
- [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/)
- [CMake](https://cmake.org/download/)
- [Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/mac-osx/)

### Build

1. Install NPM packages for ONNX Runtime common JavaScript library and required React Native JavaScript libraries

   1. in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/`, run `npm ci`.
   2. in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/common/`, run `npm ci`.
   3. in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/`, run `yarn`.

2. Build Android ONNX Runtime package

   1. Set up an Android build environment referring to [instruction](https://www.onnxruntime.ai/docs/how-to/build.html#android)

   2. In `<ORT_ROOT>`, run this python script to build ONNX Runtime Android archive file. In windows, this requires admin account to build. If an app uses a fixed set of models, refer to [instruction](https://www.onnxruntime.ai/docs/how-to/build.html#android) and build a mobile version package

   ```python
   python tools/ci_build/github/android/build_aar_package.py js/react_native/scripts/aar_build_settings.json --config MinSizeRel --android_sdk_path <ANDROID_SDK_PATH> --android_ndk_path <ANDROID_NDK_PATH> --build_dir <BUILD_DIRECTORY>
   ```

   3. This generates `onnxruntime-mobile-<version>.aar` in `<BUILD_DIRECTORY>/aar_out/MinSizeRel/com/microsoft/onnxruntime/onnxruntime-mobile/<version>`. Copy `aar` file into `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/android/libs` and rename it as `onnxruntime.aar`

   4. To verify, open Android Emulator and run this command from `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/android`

   ```sh
   adb shell am instrument -w ai.onnxruntime.react_native.test/androidx.test.runner.AndroidJUnitRunner
   ```

3. Build iOS ONNX Runtime package

   1. Set up iOS build environment referring to [instruction](https://www.onnxruntime.ai/docs/how-to/build.html#ios).

   2. Build ONNX Runtime library for iOS from `<ORT_ROOT>` using this command,

   ```sh
   ./build.sh --config MinSizeRel --use_xcode --ios --ios_sysroot iphoneos --osx_arch arm64 --apple_deploy_target 11
   ```

   Copy `<ORT_ROOT>/build/iOS/MinSizeRel/MinSizeRel-iphoneos/libonnxruntime.<version>.dylib` file into `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/ios/Libraries/onnxruntime/lib/iphoneos`

   3. Clean up the previous build and build ONNX Runtime library for iOS Simulator from `<ORT_ROOT>`

   ```sh
   ./build.sh --config MinSizeRel --use_xcode --ios --ios_sysroot iphonesimulator --osx_arch x86_64 --apple_deploy_target 11
   ```

   Copy `<ORT_ROOT>/build/iOS/MinSizeRel/MinSizeRel-iphonesimulator/libonnxruntime.<version>.dylib` file into `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/ios/Libraries/onnxruntime/lib/iphonesimulator`

   4. Edit `onnxruntime-react-native.iphoneos.podspec` and `onnxruntime-react-native.iphonesimulator.podsepc` in `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native` to change a version of ONNX Runtime library.

   5. Copy ONNX Runtime header files

   ```sh
   cp <ORT_ROOT>/include/onnxruntime/core/session/*.h <ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/ios/Libraries/onnxruntime/include
   ```

   6. To verify, open iOS Simulator and run this command from `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native/ios`. Change a destination to specify a running iOS Simulator.
      ```sh
      pod install
      export ONNXRUNTIME_VERSION=<version>; xcodebuild test -workspace OnnxruntimeModule.xcworkspace -scheme OnnxruntimeModuleTest -destination 'platform=iOS Simulator,name=iPhone 11,OS=14.5'
      ```

4. Update a version in `package.json` to align with ONNX Runtime version.

5. Test an example for Android and iOS. In Windows, open Android Emulator first. From `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native`
   ```sh
   yarn bootstrap
   yarn example ios
   yarn example android
   ```

### NPM Packaging

1. Update a version using `npm verison <version>` from `<ORT_ROOT>/js/react_native` folder. If it's for a dev, use `npm version <version>-dev.<subversion>`

2. Run `yarn prepack` to change `onnxruntime-common` to point to a published npm package

3. Run `npm pack` and verify NPM package contents

4. Run `npm publish <tgz> --dry-run` to see how it's going to be published

5. Run `npm publish <tgz>` to publish to npmjs. If it's for a dev, add flag `--tag dev`.

### Distribution

It should be able to consumed by React Native projects that uses Yarn packages through `yarn add onnxruntime-react-native`.
